Part 1 Public authorities: general Ministers of the Crown and government departments A Minister of the Crown. A government department other than the Security Service, the Secret Intelligence Service or the Government Communications Headquarters. Advocates for victims of major incidents An advocate for victims of major incidents appointed under Part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024. Armed forces Any of the armed forces other than any part of the armed forces which is, in accordance with a requirement of the Secretary of State, assisting the Government Communications Headquarters. Service Police Complaints Commissioner. Broadcasting The British Broadcasting Corporation (“ BBC ”), except in respect of functions relating to the provision of a content service (within the meaning given by section 32(7) of the Communications Act 2003); and the reference to the BBC includes a reference to a body corporate which— (a) is a wholly owned subsidiary of the BBC , (b) is not operated with a view to generating a profit, and (c) undertakes activities primarily in order to promote the BBC 's public purposes. The Channel Four Television Corporation, except in respect of— (a) functions relating to the provision of a content service (within the meaning given by section 32(7) of the Communications Act 2003), and (b) the function of carrying on the activities referred to in section 199 of that Act. S4C (as named by section 56(1) of the Broadcasting Act 1990), except in respect of functions relating to the provision of a content service (within the meaning given by section 32(7) of the Communications Act 2003). Citizens' rights The Independent Monitoring Authority for the Citizens' Rights Agreements. Civil liberties The Commission for Equality and Human Rights. The Information Commissioner. Court services and legal services The Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service. The Judicial Appointments Commission. The Legal Services Board. ... Criminal justice Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary. Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of the Crown Prosecution Service. Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Prisons. Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Probation for England and Wales. The Forensic Science Regulator. The Parole Board for England and Wales. A probation trust established by an order made under section 5(1) of the Offender Management Act 2007. The Youth Justice Board for England and Wales. Environment, housing and development The Homes and Communities Agency. Natural England. The Office for Environmental Protection. ... ... Health, social care and social security NHS England . An integrated care board established under section 14Z25 of the National Health Service Act 2006. The Care Quality Commission. The Commissioner for Patient Safety. ... ... The Health Research Authority. The Health Service Commissioner for England, in respect of— (a) the Commissioner's functions set out in paragraph 11 of Schedule 1 to the Health Service Commissioners Act 1993; and (b) the Commissioner's public procurement functions (as defined in section 155(3) of this Act). The Infected Blood Compensation Authority. ... An NHS foundation trust within the meaning given by section 30 of the National Health Service Act 2006. ... ... A Special Health Authority established under section 28 of that Act other than NHS Blood and Transplant and the NHS Business Services Authority. ... ... The Health Services Safety Investigations Body. The National Data Guardian for Health and Social Care. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Industry, business, finance etc. The Advanced Research and Invention Agency. The Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service. The Bank of England (including the Bank in its capacity as the Prudential Regulation Authority) , in respect of its public functions. The Board of the Pension Protection Fund. The Civil Aviation Authority. ... The Coal Authority. ... The Comptroller and Auditor General. The Construction Industry Training Board. The Engineering Construction Industry Training Board. The Financial Conduct Authority. The Financial Reporting Council Limited. The Independent System Operator and Planner designated in accordance with section 162 of the Energy Act 2023 (c. 52) . The Money and Pensions Service. The National Audit Office. The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority. The Office for Budget Responsibility. The Office of Communications. ... The Oil and Gas Authority. The Payment Systems Regulator established under section 40 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013. The Trade Remedies Authority. ... ... United Kingdom Research and Innovation. Local government A county council, district council or parish council in England. A parish meeting constituted under section 13 of the Local Government Act 1972. Charter trustees constituted under section 246 of that Act for an area in England. The Greater London Authority. A London borough council. The Common Council of the City of London in its capacity as a local authority or port health authority. The Sub-Treasurer of the Inner Temple or the Under-Treasurer of the Middle Temple, in that person's capacity as a local authority. ... The London Fire Commissioner, Transport for London. A Mayoral development corporation. The Council of the Isles of Scilly. The Broads Authority established by section 1 of the Norfolk and Suffolk Broads Act 1988. ... A fire and rescue authority constituted by a scheme under section 2 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004, or a scheme to which section 4 of that Act applies, for an area in England. A fire and rescue authority created by an order under section 4A of that Act. An internal drainage board which is continued in being by virtue of section 1 of the Land Drainage Act 1991 for an area in England. A National Park authority established by an order under section 63 of the Environment Act 1995 for an area in England. A Passenger Transport Executive for an integrated transport area in England (within the meaning of Part 2 of the Transport Act 1968). A port health authority constituted by an order under section 2 of the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984 for an area in England. A waste disposal authority established by virtue of an order under section 10(1) of the Local Government Act 1985. A joint authority established under Part 4 of that Act for an area in England (including, by virtue of section 77(9) of the Local Transport Act 2008, an Integrated Transport Authority established under Part 5 of that Act of 2008). A sub-national transport body established under section 102E of the Local Transport Act 2008. A body corporate established pursuant to an order under section 67 of the Local Government Act 1985. A joint committee constituted in accordance with section 102(1)(b) of the Local Government Act 1972 for an area in England. A joint board which is continued in being by virtue of section 263(1) of that Act for an area in England. ... A Local Commissioner in England as defined by section 23(3) of the Local Government Act 1974, in respect of— (a) the Commissioner's functions under sections 29(6A) and 34G(6) of that Act, and section 210(5) of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009; and (b) the Commissioner's public procurement functions (as defined in section 155(3) of this Act). ... A combined authority established by an order made under section 103(1) of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009. A combined county authority established under section 9(1) of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023. An economic prosperity board established by an order made under section 88(1) of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009. An urban development corporation established by an order made under section 135 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980. Other educational bodies The governing body of an educational establishment maintained by an English local authority (within the meaning of section 162 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006). The governing body of an institution in England within the further education sector (within the meaning of section 91(3) of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992). The governing body of an institution in England within the higher education sector (within the meaning of section 91(5) of that Act). ... A local authority with respect to the pupil referral units it establishes and maintains by virtue of section 19 or 19A of the Education Act 1996. The National Citizen Service Trust. The Office for Students. The proprietor of a City Technology College, a City College for Technology of the Arts, or an Academy. Parliamentary and devolved bodies The National Assembly for Wales Commission (Comisiwn Cynulliad Cenedlaethol Cymru). The Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, in respect of— (a) the Commissioner's functions set out in section 3(1) and (1A) of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967; and (b) the Commissioner's public procurement functions (as defined in section 155(3) of this Act). The Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body. Police The British Transport Police Force. A chief constable of a police force maintained under section 2 of the Police Act 1996. The Chief Inspector of the UK Border Agency. The Civil Nuclear Police Authority. The College of Policing. The Commissioner of Police for the City of London. The Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis. The Common Council of the City of London in its capacity as a police authority. The Director General of the Independent Office for Police Conduct. The Independent Office for Police Conduct. ... A police and crime commissioner established under section 1 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011. The Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime established under section 3 of that Act. A Port Police Force established under an order made under section 14 of the Harbours Act 1964. The Port Police Force established under Part 10 of the Port of London Act 1968. A Port Police Force established under section 79 of the Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847. ... Regulators ... The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, in respect of its public functions. ... The Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys, in respect of its public functions. The Council for Licensed Conveyancers, in respect of its public functions. The Disclosure and Barring Service. The Gambling Commission. The Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority. The General Chiropractic Council, in respect of its public functions. The General Council of the Bar, in respect of its public functions. The General Dental Council, in respect of its public functions. The General Medical Council, in respect of its public functions. The General Optical Council, in respect of its public functions. The General Osteopathic Council, in respect of its public functions. The General Pharmaceutical Council, in respect of its public functions. The Health and Safety Executive. The Health and Care Professions Council, in respect of its public functions. The Office for Nuclear Regulation. The Independent Monitor appointed under section 119B of the Police Act 1997. The Insolvency Practitioners Association, in respect of its public functions. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, in respect of its public functions. The Institute of Legal Executives, in respect of its public functions. The Institute of Trade Mark Attorneys, in respect of its public functions. The Law Society of England and Wales, in respect of its public functions. The Nursing and Midwifery Council, in respect of its public functions. The Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner. The Pensions Regulator. The Regulator of Social Housing. The Security Industry Authority. Social Work England. Transport High Speed Two (HS2) Limited. A public sector company providing services for the carriage of passengers by railway under a public service contract awarded under section 30 of the Railways Act 1993 (public sector provision of services). A strategic highways company appointed under section 1 of the Infrastructure Act 2015 Network Rail Limited.