43 Interpretation (1) This section applies for the purposes of section 42. (2) “ Chief officer ” means— (a) in relation to an appointment under a relevant Act, the chief officer of police for the police force to which the appointment relates; (b) in relation to any other appointment, the person under whose direction and control the body of constables or other persons to which the appointment relates is; (c) in relation to a constable or other person under the direction and control of a chief officer of police, that chief officer of police; (d) in relation to any other constable or any other person, the person under whose direction and control the constable or other person is. (3) “ Responsible authority ” means— (a) in relation to an appointment under a relevant Act, the local policing body or police authority that maintains the police force to which the appointment relates; (b) in relation to any other appointment, the person by whom a person would (if appointed) be paid; (c) in relation to a constable or other person under the direction and control of a chief officer of police, the local policing body or police authority that maintains the police force for which that chief officer is the chief officer of police; (d) in relation to any other constable or any other person, the person by whom the constable or other person is paid. (4) “ Police cadet ” means a person appointed to undergo training with a view to becoming a constable. (5) “ NCA ” means the National Crime Agency; and a reference to a constable at NCA is a reference to a constable seconded to it to serve as an NCA officer. (5A) “ SPA ” means the Scottish Police Authority; and a reference to a constable at SPA is a reference to a constable serving as a member of its staff by virtue of paragraph 7(1) of schedule 1 to the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012. (7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (8) For the purposes of this section, the relevant Acts are— (a) the Metropolitan Police Act 1829; (b) the City of London Police Act 1839; (c) the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012 ; (d) the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011. (9) Subsections (2) and (3) apply in relation to Scotland as follows— (a) a reference to a police authority includes a reference to the Scottish Police Authority; (b) a reference to a police force includes a reference to the Police Service of Scotland; and (c) a reference to a chief officer of police includes a reference to the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland.