85 Pupils: admission and treatment, etc. (1) The responsible body of a school to which this section applies must not discriminate against a person— (a) in the arrangements it makes for deciding who is offered admission as a pupil; (b) as to the terms on which it offers to admit the person as a pupil; (c) by not admitting the person as a pupil. (2) The responsible body of such a school must not discriminate against a pupil— (a) in the way it provides education for the pupil; (b) in the way it affords the pupil access to a benefit, facility or service; (c) by not providing education for the pupil; (d) by not affording the pupil access to a benefit, facility or service; (e) by excluding the pupil from the school; (f) by subjecting the pupil to any other detriment. (3) The responsible body of such a school must not harass— (a) a pupil; (b) a person who has applied for admission as a pupil. (4) The responsible body of such a school must not victimise a person— (a) in the arrangements it makes for deciding who is offered admission as a pupil; (b) as to the terms on which it offers to admit the person as a pupil; (c) by not admitting the person as a pupil. (5) The responsible body of such a school must not victimise a pupil— (a) in the way it provides education for the pupil; (b) in the way it affords the pupil access to a benefit, facility or service; (c) by not providing education for the pupil; (d) by not affording the pupil access to a benefit, facility or service; (e) by excluding the pupil from the school; (f) by subjecting the pupil to any other detriment. (6) A duty to make reasonable adjustments applies to the responsible body of such a school. (7) In relation to England and Wales, this section applies to— (a) a school maintained by a local authority; (b) an independent educational institution (other than a special school); (ba) an alternative provision Academy that is not an independent educational institution; (c) a special school (not maintained by a local authority). (8) In relation to Scotland, this section applies to— (a) a school managed by an education authority; (b) an independent school; (c) a school in respect of which the managers are for the time being receiving grants under section 73(c) or (d) of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980. (9) The responsible body of a school to which this section applies is— (a) if the school is within subsection (7)(a), the local authority or governing body; (b) if it is within subsection (7)(b) , (ba) or (c), the proprietor; (c) if it is within subsection (8)(a), the education authority; (d) if it is within subsection (8)(b), the proprietor; (e) if it is within subsection (8)(c), the managers. (10) In the application of section 26 for the purposes of subsection (3), none of the following is a relevant protected characteristic— (a) gender reassignment; (b) religion or belief; (c) sexual orientation.