154 Power to impose specific duties: cross-border authorities (1) If a Minister of the Crown exercises the power in section 151(5) to add an entry for a public authority to Part 4 of Schedule 19, the Minister must include after the entry a letter specified in the first column of the Table in subsection (3). (2) Where a letter specified in the first column of the Table in subsection (3) is included after an entry for a public authority in Part 4 of Schedule 19, the person specified in the second column of the Table— (a) may by regulations impose duties on the authority for the purpose of enabling the better performance by the authority of the duty imposed by section 149(1), subject to such limitations as are specified in that column; (b) must in making the regulations comply with the procedural requirement specified in that column. (3) This is the Table— Letter Person by whom regulations may be made and procedural requirements A Regulations may be made by a Minister of the Crown in relation to the authority's functions that are not devolved Welsh functions. The Minister of the Crown must consult the Welsh Ministers before making the regulations. Regulations may be made by the Welsh Ministers in relation to the authority's devolved Welsh functions. The Welsh Ministers must inform a Minister of the Crown after making the regulations. B Regulations may be made by a Minister of the Crown in relation to the authority's functions that are not devolved Scottish functions. The Minister of the Crown must consult the Scottish Ministers before making the regulations. Regulations may be made by the Scottish Ministers in relation to the authority's devolved Scottish functions. The Scottish Ministers must inform a Minister of the Crown after making the regulations. C Regulations may be made by a Minister of the Crown in relation to the authority's functions that are neither devolved Welsh functions nor devolved Scottish functions. The Minister of the Crown must consult the Welsh Ministers and the Scottish Ministers before making the regulations. Regulations may be made by the Welsh Ministers in relation to the authority's devolved Welsh functions. The Welsh Ministers must inform a Minister of the Crown after making the regulations. Regulations may be made by the Scottish Ministers in relation to the authority's devolved Scottish functions. The Scottish Ministers must inform a Minister of the Crown after making the regulations. D The regulations may be made by a Minister of the Crown. The Minister of the Crown must consult the Welsh Ministers before making the regulations. (4) Before making regulations under subsection (2), the person making them must consult the Commission.