PART 6B CIVIL PARTNERSHIP, MARRIAGE OF SAME SEX COUPLES AND MARRIAGE OF CIVIL PARTNERS: SCOTLAND Marriage and civil partnership: Scotland 25B (1) An approved celebrant does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to solemnise a relevant Scottish marriage for the reason that the marriage is the marriage of two persons of the same sex. (1A) An approved celebrant does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to solemnise a relevant Scottish marriage for the reason that the marriage is the marriage of two persons of the opposite sex who are in a civil partnership with each other. (2) An approved celebrant does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to register a relevant Scottish civil partnership for the reason that the approved celebrant does not wish to register civil partnerships generally, or those between two persons of the same sex, or those between two persons of the opposite sex . (3) A person does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to participate in a religious or belief ceremony forming part of, or connected with, the solemnising of a relevant Scottish marriage for the reason that the marriage is the marriage of two persons of the same sex. (3A) A person does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to participate in a religious or belief ceremony forming part of, or connected with, the solemnising of a relevant Scottish marriage for the reason that the marriage is a marriage of two persons of the opposite sex who are in a civil partnership with each other. (4) A person does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to participate in a religious or belief ceremony forming part of, or connected with, the registration of a relevant Scottish civil partnership for the reason that the person does not wish to participate in such ceremonies in relation to civil partnerships generally, or those between two persons of the same sex, or those between two persons of the opposite sex . (5) For the purposes of this paragraph, a person is an approved celebrant for the purposes of both marriage and civil partnership whether the person is an approved celebrant within the meaning of section 8(2)(a) of the Marriage (Scotland) Act 1977 or section 94A(4)(a) of the Civil Partnership Act 2004. (6) In this paragraph— “relevant Scottish civil partnership” means a religious or belief civil partnership within the meaning of section 94A(4)(b) of the Civil Partnership Act 2004; “relevant Scottish marriage” means a religious or belief marriage ... within the meaning of section 8(2)(a) of the Marriage (Scotland) Act 1977. Marriage of same sex couples: Scottish forces marriages 25C (1) A chaplain does not contravene section 29 only by refusing to solemnise a relevant Scottish forces marriage according to religious rites or usages for the reason that the marriage is the marriage of two persons of the same sex. (2) In this paragraph— “chaplain” has the meaning given by paragraph (a) of the definition of “authorised person” in paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 6 to the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013; “forces marriage” has the meaning given by paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 6 to the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013; “relevant Scottish forces marriage” means a forces marriage of two persons of the same sex where Scotland is the relevant part of the United Kingdom within the meaning of paragraph 12 of Schedule 6 to the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013.