8 Duties to collaborate and plan to prevent and reduce serious violence (1) The specified authorities for a local government area must collaborate with each other to prevent and reduce serious violence in the area. (2) The duty imposed on the specified authorities for a local government area by subsection (1) includes a duty to plan together to exercise their functions so as to prevent and reduce serious violence in the area. (3) In particular, the specified authorities for a local government area must— (a) identify the kinds of serious violence that occur in the area, (b) identify the causes of serious violence in the area, so far as it is possible to do so, and (c) prepare and implement a strategy for exercising their functions to prevent and reduce serious violence in the area. (4) In preparing a strategy under this section for a local government area, the specified authorities for the area must ensure that the following are consulted— (a) each educational authority for the area; (b) each prison authority for the area; (c) each youth custody authority for the area. (5) A strategy under this section for a local government area may specify an action to be carried out by— (a) an educational authority for the area, (b) a prison authority for the area, or (c) a youth custody authority for the area. See section 15 for further provision about the duties of such authorities in relation to such actions. (6) In preparing a strategy under this section for a local government area, the specified authorities for the area may invite participation from— (a) in the case of a strategy for a local government area in England, a person of a description for the time being prescribed by order of the Secretary of State under section 5(3) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998; (b) in the case of a strategy for a local government area in Wales, a person of a description for the time being prescribed by order of the Welsh Ministers under section 5(3) of that Act. (7) Once a strategy has been prepared under this section for a local government area, the specified authorities for the area must— (a) publish the strategy, (b) keep the strategy under review, and (c) from time to time prepare and implement a revised strategy. (8) A strategy under this section must not include any material that the specified authorities consider— (a) might jeopardise the safety of any person, (b) might prejudice the prevention or detection of crime or the investigation or prosecution of an offence, or (c) might compromise the security of, or good order or discipline within, an institution of a kind mentioned in the first column of a table in Schedule 2. (9) A strategy under this section may cover an area that is wider than a local government area if it is also prepared in the exercise of the powers in section 9. (10) The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision for or in connection with the publication and dissemination of a strategy under this section. (11) References in subsections (4) to (10) to a strategy under this section include a revised strategy. (12) This section does not affect any power of a specified authority to collaborate or plan apart from this section. (13) For provisions about the interpretation of this section, see— (a) section 11 and Schedule 1 (specified authorities and local government areas); (b) section 12 and Schedule 2 (educational, prison and youth custody authorities); (c) section 13 (preventing and reducing serious violence).