10 Power to authorise collaboration etc. with other persons (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations— (a) confer powers on a specified authority to collaborate with a prescribed person to prevent and reduce serious violence in a prescribed area; (b) confer powers on a prescribed person to collaborate with a specified authority to prevent and reduce serious violence in a prescribed area. (2) The Secretary of State may by regulations authorise the disclosure of information— (a) by a prescribed person to any person listed in subsection (3) for the purposes of preventing and reducing serious violence in a prescribed area; (b) by any person listed in subsection (3) to a prescribed person for such purposes. (3) Those persons are— (a) a specified authority; (b) a local policing body; (c) an educational authority; (d) a prison authority; (e) a youth custody authority. (4) Regulations under subsection (2) may provide that a disclosure under the regulations does not breach— (a) any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or (b) any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed). (5) But if regulations under subsection (2) contain provision under subsection (4)(b) , they must provide that they do not authorise a disclosure of information that— (a) would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would do so, any power conferred by the regulations is to be taken into account), or (b) is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016. (6) Regulations under subsection (2) must not authorise— (a) the disclosure of patient information, or (b) the disclosure of personal information by a specified authority which is a health or social care authority. (7) This section does not affect any power to collaborate or to disclose information apart from regulations under this section. (8) In this section, “ prescribed ” means prescribed, or of a description prescribed, in regulations under this section. (9) Regulations under this section may, in particular, prescribe persons by reference to the fact that they have been invited under section 8 (6) or 9 (6) to participate in the preparation of a strategy under section 8 or 9. (10) In this Chapter— “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act); “ health or social care authority ” means a specified authority which is listed in the first column of the table headed “Health and social care” in Schedule 1; “ patient information ” means personal information (however recorded) which relates to— (a) the physical or mental health or condition of an individual, (b) the diagnosis of an individual’s condition, or (c) an individual’s care or treatment, or is (to any extent) derived directly or indirectly from information relating to any of those matters; “ personal information ” means information which is in a form that identifies any individual or enables any individual to be identified (either by itself or in combination with other information).